New pages: htmloptionscollection (#35982)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmloptionscollection/length/index.md

---
title: "HTMLOptionsCollection: length property"
short-title: length
slug: Web/API/HTMLOptionsCollection/length
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLOptionsCollection.length
---

{{APIRef("DOM")}}

The **`length`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}} interface returns the number of {{htmlelement("option")}} elements in the collection. The property can get or set the size of the collection.

> When setting `length`, property value assignment will truncate the `<option>` elements in the `<select>` if the value is smaller than the current `length` and will add new blank `<option>` elements to the `<select>` if the value is greater than the current `length`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When setting `length` to a value smaller than the current, the options collection gets truncated; otherwise, new blank `<option>` elements are appended to the end of the `<select>`.
```
